# MathMusic

Just a fun little idea I had while I was learning about the fourier series - I wanted to hear the math! MathMusic is an innovative web application that translates mathematical equations into sound, allowing users to explore the auditory landscape of mathematics. Users can input any mathematical function, adjust parameters via interactive controls, and hear the result as well as see the waveform.

[Demo](https://mathmusic.pmw.ltd)

## Features

- **Interactive Audio Control**: Users can manipulate audio through an intuitive interface that includes sliders for real-time parameter adjustments.
- **Visual Waveform Display**: The app displays a visual representation of the sound wave generated by the mathematical equations.
- **User Guide and Function Reference**: Integrated guides and examples to help users create their own sound equations.
- **Error Handling**: Provides feedback when errors occur in equation processing or audio playback.

## Getting Started

To get started with MathMusic, clone this repository and follow these steps to set up the app locally:

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the latest version of Node.js installed, which is required to run the development server and build the project.

### Installation

1. Install the dependencies:

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

2. Start the development server:

   ```bash
   pnpm run dev
   ```

3. Open [http://localhost:2309](http://localhost:2309) in your browser to see the app in action.

### Usage

To use MathMusic, enter a mathematical function in the input field. You can use the provided mathematical functions and constants from the global list, such as `sin`, `cos`, `pi`, etc. Adjust the slider to change parameters and hit the play switch to hear the sound.

### Saving & Sharing

Any update you make to the formula saves in the hash of the URL. So just share or save the URL you currently are on.

## Documentation

- **Components**: The app uses Svelte components for UI elements like sliders, switches, and error displays.
- **Audio Processing**: The core audio processing is handled by an AudioWorklet which runs in the browser's audio rendering thread.
- **State Management**: Uses Svelte's reactivity and state management features to keep UI and audio state in sync.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.
